Let's move to Harringay, north London: 'It's up and come'

Not as affordable as it was, but it still has fantastic Turkish
grocers, green spaces and sought-after town houses

Harringay

'Harringay was my introduction to London.'


What's going for it? 
Harringay was my introduction to London. It was an inauspicious
start. I was hoping for Mayfair, or Islington, at a push. (What can I
say? I was young and foolish.) I'd never live here, past Finsbury
Park? But here I lived in a £60-a-week room on Hermitage Road. It had
Harringay won me over. It was the cabbages that did it; those, the
running track at Finsbury Park and regular baklavas. Green Lanes, its
high street, is lined with incredible Turkish grocers selling
cabbages the size of rugby balls and sweet treats that kept me going
during the gruelling times, like when our flatmate moved in (Charles
couldn't afford an actual room, so slept in the living room on a
timeshare basis). How London has changed. Two decades on, I couldn't
afford Harringay. It's up and come, too far for me, though you could
have a try. Its town houses are "sought-after"; the word "artisan"
has been spotted. But those cabbages are still there.


The case against 
Getting pricey. But isn't everywhere in London?


Well connected? 
Trains: Turnpike Lane and Manor House are on the Piccadilly line,
15-25 mins to central London; Harringay Green Lanes is on the
Overground Gospel Oak to Barking Line, currently closed for work
until February 2017; Harringay rail station runs to Moorgate (16
mins) or Welwyn Garden City (35 mins). Driving: you're not far from
the North Circular, but it's at least 40 minutes into central London,
the same to the M1, and 30 mins to the M25, all with the wind behind
you.


Schools 
Primaries: Chestnuts, St Mary's Priory RC, North Harringay and South
Harringay are all "good", says Ofsted, with Woodberry Down
"outstanding". Secondaries: Skinners' Academy and Park View are
"good".


Hang out at... 
The magnificent Salisbury pub; one of north London's glories when it
opened in 1899 and still glorious. You won't want for Turkish grills.


Where to buy 
Harringay is quite small, hugging Green Lanes. The "Ladder" to the
west is the estate agents' prize, parallel streets of late Victorian
and early Edwardian terraces. Terraces: five bedrooms, £900,000-£1m;
four beds, £750,000-£950,000; three beds, £660,000-£875,000. Flats:
three beds, £450,000-£650,000; two beds, £400,000-£575,000; one bed,
£340,000-£480,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £1,000-£1,400pcm; three-bed
flat, £1,800-£2,600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A three-bed terrace, needing updating, east of Green Lanes, £509,950
with paulsimonsales.com.


From the streets

Kevin O'Sullivan 
"The area has a magic, slightly unkempt feel, and wonderful food from
all parts."

Alison Park 
"Yasar Halim has fantastic produce."

Linda Zubairi 
"Feels like a village, people really do know each other. You hit a
pram every 100m!"

Hugh Flouch 
"Railway Fields and the New River Path are hidden gems."


Live in Harringay? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 22 November.


 

