Let's move to Westerham, West Malling and the West Kent Downs: aim high

It has fabulous bony hills that Chaucer's pilgrims crossed

Westham, Kent

Westerham.


What's going for it? 
On occasion, friends use me like a bargain-basement Kirsty and Phil.
Where, Tom, one began recently, can I find a period two-bedroom house
no more than an hours commute to London Victoria? In the countryside.
I want to see fields. Â£450k tops. And I don't want anything modern. A
good question. To which I replied, after a G&T and a cogitate, Why,
Westerham, West Malling and the West Kent Downs. Actually Westerham
is a bit out of her league, but I threw it in as something to aim
towards, because its such a lovely old town. Head east of Oxted, west
of Maidstone and theres a very endangered species: perhaps the only
accessible patch of the home counties still remotely affordable. No
idea why, because it has fabulous bony hills that Chaucer's pilgrims
crossed; pretty if suburban villages supplying the commuters every
whim; great accessibility, too. And, reader, she moved there.


The case against 
Westerham in full rush hour/school run mode is a sight. Find a home
close to train stations and schools to minimise using a car.


Well connected? 
Trains: half hourly to London Victoria from West Malling (50 mins),
Borough Green & Wrotham (45 mins) and Otford (35 mins); or from Oxted
to London Bridge (hourly, 45 mins) or London Victoria (half hourly,
40 mins). Driving: a few minutes to the M26/M20, and 20 mins to the
M25.


Schools 
Primaries: no shortage of good schools, says Ofsted, with St Mary's C
of E (Oxted), Sundridge & Brasted CofE, Chevening C of E, St George's
CofE (Wrotham), Ryarsh, Offham and Leybourne Ss Peter & Paul C of E
"outstanding". Secondaries: Oxted, Trinity (Sevenoaks), Wrotham, The
Malling School, Aylesford School and Holmesdale Technology College
(Snodland) are all "good".


Hang out at 
Its country pub land; try the Plough at Ivy Hatch or the George &
Dragon at Chipstead.


Where to buy 
Yum, Westerham. But yikes, the prices. West Malling has an equally
pretty, period heart for a perkier price. Root around quiet villages
such as Wrotham or Offham. Large detacheds and town houses,
850,000-3m. Detacheds, 400,000-850,000. Semis, 240,000-750,000.
Terraces and cottages, 120,000-400,000. Flats, 100,000-420,000.
Rentals: one-bed flat, 550-850pcm; three-bed house, 1,000-2,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 
You'll be lucky. Mind you, a four-bed period terrace in Wateringbury
for 275,000? With Hicks.


From the streets

Kelly Innes 
"Every May bank holiday there's a tradition of beating the bounds 
walking the perimeter of Westerham parish."

Jane Hunter 
"Westerham has a great cafe culture and it's friendly. Chartwell,
Winston Churchills former home and now a National Trust property, is
a mile away and a great place to visit."


Live in Westerham, West Malling and the West Kent Downs? Join the
debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 31 May.

 

