Let's move to Solihull, West Midlands

Urbs in rure, goes its slogan, though its more rure in urbs, with
fragments of its quaint past embraced by suburbia

Photograph of Solihull shopping street

Solihull, West Midlands: Voted the best place to live in the UK a few
years back.


What's going for it? 
You say Solly-hull, I say Sow-lihul. It's all terribly terribly, round
here  all Groves, Avenues and Crescents, 1920s lawns and conifers.
Under different circumstances, it might have continued life as a
small Warwickshire market town with a fine sandstone parish church, a
manor house and a huddle of half-timbered cottages, but Brum fattened
up in the 20th century, its girth swilling over pretty Solihull. Urbs
in rure, goes its slogan, though its more rure in urbs, with the
fragments of its quaint past now gripped in the suburban embrace of
Ramada hotels, John Lewis and labyrinthine avenues called Beechnut
Lane. Solihull was voted the best place to live in the UK a few years
back and, indeed, it is the kind of untroubling town the nation, had
we met by committee, might have agreed on as the optimum place in
which to while away our lives, trimming the hedges and polishing the
Land Rover.


The case against 
You can tire of 1920s suburbia. The centre is humdrum.


Well connected? 
Trains: six or so an hour to Birmingham Moor Street or Snow Hill
(12-20 mins), twice hourly to Warwick (20-25 mins) and London
Marylebone (an hour and 40 mins to two hours). Driving: 15 mins to
Birmingham airport, half an hour to the centre of Birmingham.


Schools 
Primaries: Greswold, Coppice Junior, Yew Tree, St Alphege C of E,
Monkspath Junior, Widney Junior, Sharmans Cross Junior, Oak Cottage
are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Solihull sixth-form college,
Lode Heath and Alderbrook are all "good", with St Peters Catholic and
Tudor Grange "outstanding".


Hang out at 
You've got your Italian trattorias and your Indians, and decent places
such as the Malt Shovel at Barston, but I'd go the extra mile for The
Forest at Dorridge.


Where to buy 
You won't want for serpentine avenues of weighty Edwardian to 1930s
detacheds and semis. Poshest around Hampton and Marsh Lanes, and by
Brueton Park; get lost, too, around Streetsbrook Road, Prospect Lane
and up to Kineton Green. Farther south, Widney has more mainstream
suburbans. Large detacheds and town houses, 550,000-1.25m. Detacheds,
280,000-550,000. Semis, 230,000-370,000. Terraces and cottages,
150,000-280,000. Flats, 130,000-250,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
450-650pcm; three-bed house, 750-1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bedroom semi in a great location, close to Tudor Grange school,
335,000 via rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Kiran Sidhu 
"It's a lovely place to bring up children. Lots of parks and excellent
schools. Apart from the M42, its a welcome sanctuary."

David Evans 
"The town and villages are surrounded by farms, fields, streams and
overhung country lanes within comfortable walking or cycling
distance."


Do you live in Solihull? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2 February.

 

