Let's move to South Norwood and Thornton Heath, south London

Here it is, a huge, humdrum wodge of the city, with its
unreconstructed caffs and kebab spots

It could get claustrophobic, were it not for the geography.


What's going for it? 
Not every square metre of London is swarming with oligarchs, hepcat
hipsters and buy-to-let investors from Hong Kong. There is another
London: it's still there, holding out against the tabloid headlines,
with its chicken shops, "continental" greengrocers, kebab spots and
unreconstructed caffs. And this is it. Wedged between Croydon and
Upper Norwood (so posh it likes to call itself Crystal Palace these
days) is a huge, humdrum wodge of the capital. That's not to say
there aren't sublime spots: the Norwood Lakes, the restored pomp of
the Stanley Halls. The unrelenting strips of pebbledash could get
claustrophobic were it not for the geography, the landscape folding
this way and that in the foothills of the alps of Crystal Palace.


The case against 
Suburban claustrophobia. There are some rather gloomy patches and
some of the housing can be a bit drab (lots of pebbledash; and I like
pebbledash).


Well connected? 
Trains: seven or eight an hour from Norwood Junction to London Bridge
or London Victoria (17-34 mins). Overground: every 15 mins to Canada
Water (23 mins) and Shoreditch (33 mins); or to West Croydon (five
minutes). Harrington Road is on the Tramlink.


Schools 
Primaries: Downsview, St Cyprian's Greek Orthodox, David Livingstone,
Beulah Junior, Gonville Academy, Whitehorse Manor, Heavers Farm,
Ecclesbourne, The Crescent and Elm Wood are all "good", says Ofsted,
with Rockmount, St James the Great RC and West Thornton
"outstanding". Secondaries: The BRIT School is "good"; the Harris
Academy Upper Norwood, Harris City Academy Crystal Palace and Harris
Academy South Norwood are all "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The cafe at the fabulous Edwardian Stanley Halls.


Where to buy 
Auckland Road, Howden Road, on and off South Norwood Hill. Also look
west via Whitehorse Lane towards Grangewood Park; and the Victorian
terraces and semis around Alber Road. Detacheds and townhouses,
£625,000-£1.3m. Semis, £450,000-£900,000. Large terraces,
£450,000-£625,000; smaller terraces, £300,000-£450,000. Flats: three
bedrooms, £280,000-£400,000; one bedroom, £160,000-£275,000. Rentals:
one-bedroom flats, £750-£1,200pcm; three-bedroom houses,
£1,250-£1,700pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Two-bedroom terrace house; needs updating. £315,000 with
northwoods.co.uk.


From the streets

Jon Pelluet 
"Monthly film club at the renovated Stanley Halls. A fantastic spot
which is building great momentum - we love SE25."

Libby Hamilton 
"Mantanah: the best Thai restaurant I've been to in London. Norwood
Lakes: great for running."

John Anderson 
"Fly tipping is endemic."


Do you live in South Norwood and Thornton Heath? Join the debate
below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 17 May.

 

