Let's move to New Ash Green, Kent: there's no hiding from the neighbours here

It feels like a shotgun marriage between two visions of the future:
the same-old-same-old, and what might have been

Span designed housing in New Ash Green, Kent

What's going for it? 

Imagine, if you will, a property developer building a garden village
of beautiful, affordable, modern homes of exemplary design - not a
faux gable or ye olde garage in sight - including hundreds for
social rent for the council, all set in a luxuriant leafy backdrop of
trees and "village greens". Hard, isn't it? Still, Span began such a
thing for the Greater London Council in the late 60s, designing a
model development high on the North Downs for escapees from London.
These days, Span homes are ogled on websites such as the Modern House,
but the company began life committed to building modernist homes at
modest prices for the middling classes. New Ash Green was its biggest
project. "This may well be a model of how to get civilised modern
community living in an area of beautiful landscape," said Labour
minister Richard Crossman. Nearly. Peter Sissons moved in, and DJ Pete
Murray and his sideburns spun the decks at the grand opening. Cool, or
what? Alas, coming at a time when mortgages were being squeezed, it
sunk Span, and New Ash Green was completed, more humdrumly, by Bovis.
The indignity. The place still feels like a shotgun marriage between
two visions of the future: the same-old-same-old, and
what-might-have-been.


The case against 

Feels as if it could do with some zip, or investment; the village
centre in particular could use a spruce-up. Not for those who hide
from the neighbours; the residents' committees are coming to get
you.

Well connected? 

Trains: the nearest station is a five-minute drive away at Longfield,
with three or four trains an hour to London Victoria in one direction
(either 30 or 50 mins), or Rochester (15 mins) and Canterbury in the
other (1 hr). Driving: the M20 is just outside town, making the M25 15
mins away; Bluewater shopping mall is 15 mins, and the seaside at
Whitstable 40 mins.

Schools 

Primaries: New Ash Green is "good," Ofsted says, with Milestone
Academy âoutstandingâ. Secondaries: the aforementioned
âoutstandingâ Milestone.

Hang out at...

The village pub: do you want modernist (the Badger) or traditional
(the Royal Oak) with your pint? If neither, try the newly opened
micropub, the Vault.

Where to buy 

Not your average Kentish village. The Span plan has neighbourhoods of
cul-de-sacs clustered around "greens", with roads separated from
pedestrian paths and lavish landscaping. The Span designs of Eric
Lyons are excellent and modernist, but often tiled and weatherboarded
in a nod to local traditions. The later non-Span ones aren't bad;
they just suffer by comparison. Detacheds and townhouses,
£375,000-£475,000. Terraces and cottages, £250,000-£375,000. Flats,
£200,000-£300,000. Rentals: not much; a three-bedroom house,
£1,100pcm.

Bargain of the week 

A classic Span, four-bedroom terraced house; needs updating; £459,950,
with rightmove.co.uk.

From the streets

Malcolm Carpenter 
"A unique place: village greens, orchards, meadows, playing fields
owned and managed by residents."

Joanna Law
"Country walks on the doorstep. But limited public transport."

Live in New Ash Green? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Tavistock? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 1 October.
